 Hi everyone, in this video we are going to learn what is client server architecture and how it affects REST API testing. Let's begin. The formal definition sounds like this. The client server model is a distributed application structure between the providers of a resource or service called servers and server sequesters called clients. For us it's important that there are two independent components, a client and a server. We need to learn roles and characteristics of each of them separately and then learn how the communication happens. Let's start from the server side. And again, I like to start with definitions. A server is a piece of computer hardware or software that provides functionality for other programs or devices called clients. First of all, the server is the computer hardware. Every page and every app on the internet is stored somewhere on a remote server. A remote server is not so mystical after all, it's just a part of a remote-lilcated computer. So for example, Google Maps Server is a machine where maps and images of the entire planet leave. Most likely the entire planet is too much for one machine, but anyway you got the point. Google has a lot of powerful servers. If compared to your laptop, you have the same machine, but you need to store only thousands of images. Because of that, you have let's say 500 gigabytes of disk space in total, it is enough for you. And the server, as we said, stores way more information because of it. It can have let's say five hard drives within two terabyte each. And it is only one machine. Another difference is that your laptop has only one user. And the server can serve millions of users. Because all other characteristics like CPU, cores, amount, or RAM are very different. The server is like a laptop. It's just more powerful and reliable than standard personal computers. The machine runs 24 hours per day. For now, it is enough about the hardware. Let's check the server software. And again, on the software side, the server is not as different as you think it is. On your laptop you have an operating system, let's say Windows. It helps you to work in laptop show Windows.